# codefundo

Problem Statement
------------------

The problem statement is to create new technology or to modify existing to help cities better predict and/or prepare for natural disasters. 

IDEA
-----

Developing an app dedicated for disaster management. App would be able to help user to communicate an alert message and notify others regarding the situtaions. The major features involved in the app are:
1. Application would transmit an alert message to the emergency contacts mentioned by the user and the application server.        Along with it, the GPS location of the user would be transmitted. Motivation behind this is that during disasterous            situation, the person got struck in a situation in which person would barely able to move or do anything. The activation of    app would inform the emergency contacts regarding the situation. The Activation of app would quick and simple using            descretely distingushable gesture detactable by motion sensor or by opening the app and quick autentication. 
2. Application would include another communication protocol in which the emergency contact could send the activation              permission, which if not acknowledged by user in specified time would activate the app and send the user's location.            Motivation is that during disastrous situtation sometime the person gets incapacitated. During that situation mobile device would help to track the            position and situation of person.
3. The application server would alert all the users in the locality regarding the disaster. An emergency message would be send to all the nearby users which would alarm them regarding the situation. This server response could be          generated by the emergency messages recieved from multiple users or by administrator (after recieving disaster predication message from some other authorities). This will      help to evacuate the area and to reduce the casualities. 

This application will be quite helpful in natural disaster scenarios like earthquake, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, tsunami etc. 
